#summary This page describes how to get started with Java code.

=Introduction=

To setup your Java environment you will need to ask Mr. Flanders to install NetBeans on your computer (installation requires administrative privileges).

=Setup for 2013 pre-season (using the 2012 toolset)=

== Java development environment configuration ==
Getting started with Java document - this describes the installation steps and how to create your first project. You can download it
[http://wbrobotics.com/attachments/article/11/Getting%20Started%20with%20Java%20for%20FRC.pdf by clicking here].

==Downloads==
===Step 1===
Download JDK (Java Development Kit) 
JDK 7u9 with NetBeans 7.2.1, choose the version that fits your computer.
** Note: on windows always choose 32-bits, even if you have a 64-bit machine) [http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk-7-netbeans-download-432126.html Download from here].

You may be asked if you want to install JUnit. Just click cancel and do NOT install JUnit. Also, you may be asked if you would like to provide anonymous usage data. Do NOT agree to anonymous usage data. 

=== Step 2 ===
Install Java WPI update (this will add the FIRST NetBeans plugins in your environment) from [http://firstforge.wpi.edu/sf/frs/do/viewRelease/projects.wpilib/frs.2012_java_update_for_frc.2012_frc_update_netbeans_modules here].

Copy and paste XML URL found on the webpage (listed in the getting started document) into NetBeans Tools/Plugins/settings, then click check for updates and select the FRC plugins to install.

After installing the plugins. Go back to the plugins page, go to settings, proxy settings, miscellaneous, and set the team number to 3630. 